---
layout: single
title:  "Management Style: Leader vs Boss"
date:   2021-08-20 16:23:47 -0500
categories: thoughts
author_profile: true
---

A few weeks back I came across an article titled ['Why Managers Fear a Remote-Work Future'](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/07/work-from-home-benefits/619597/) and remembered about an older article I read a while back ['What You Can Learn From a Bad Boss'](https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-you-can-learn-from-a-bad-boss-125569). This made me reflect on my own leadership style, as well as think about some of the good and bad managers I've personally had or worked alongside. 

The jist of the first article is that managers fear remote-work because thir productivity relied on optics and ceremony, rather than results. The jist of the second article is that there are "bosses" who micromanage and take a heavyhanded approach, while there are others who lead and rally their team members behind them.

Too many times throughout my career, I've worked with managers who simply do that, manage. On a software project, this could mean they get requirements from stake holders, then pass it to the devs for consuption and execution(while offering no pushback on timelines, workload, etc). They'll stand over your shoulder to make sure your screen isn't drifting off, and at the first sign of trouble will have no hesitation throwing you under the bus. But what *exactly* is the value this person is providing? Nothing is ever their fault because they haven't brought anything to the table other than delegation. These have been the most unpleasent to work with/for. These are the ones who take the "boss" approach.

However, I've also had the opportunity to work with managers who are leaders. Leaders set an example by doing. By sharing their vision. They include everyone in the decision making process because they realize the value of team effort vs. 'my way or the highway' mentality. They realize everyone is different and works within different parameters, but can help craft an environment where they can thrive and feel welcomed. They realize results speak louder than ceremony. They are willing to bear the brunt from their superiors while ensuring their subordinates are just 'made aware' that theres an issue instead of 'feeling' the issue. They want everyone to rise up and become better. Working with these have been the most rewarding experience, and why I strive to be a leader, not a boss.
